Adding tko-vmc-aws-ra 2.0 doc (#186)
vmware-tanzu-labs/tanzu-validated-solutions: src/reference-designs/tko-on-vmc-aws.md

Tanzu for Kubernetes Operations simplifies operating Kubernetes for multi-cloud deployment by centralizing management and governance for clusters and teams across on-premises, public clouds, and edge. Tanzu for Kubernetes Operations delivers an open source aligned Kubernetes distribution with consistent operations and management to support infrastructure and application modernization.

This document lays out a reference design for deploying VMware Tanzu for Kubernetes Operations on VMware Cloud on AWS. 

> Please note that the scope of this documentation is limited to Tanzu Kubernetes Grid (multi-cloud) and that it is a customer managed solution. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the scope of this documentation is limited to Tanzu Kubernetes Grid (multi-cloud) and that it is a customer-managed solution. 
```

|**Decision ID**|**Design Decision**|**Design Justification**|**Design Implications**|
| :- | :- | :- | :- |
|TKO-STG-001|Use vSAN storage for TKO|By using vSAN as the shared storage solution, you can take advantage of more cost-effective local storage.|Minimizes storage platform complexity by standardizing on a single type.|

While the default vSAN storage policy can be used, administrators should evaluate the needs of their applications and craft a specific [vSphere Storage Policy](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/6.7/com.vmware.vsphere.storage.doc/GUID-89091D59-D844-46B2-94C2-35A3961D23E7.html). vSAN storage policies describe classes of storage (e.g. SSD, NVME, etc.) along with quotas for your clusters.

![TKG  Storage integration example with vSAN](img/tko-on-vmc-aws/tko-vmc-aws01.png)

Starting with vSphere 7.0 environments with vSAN, the vSphere CSI driver for Kubernetes also supports the creation of NFS File Volumes, which support ReadWriteMany access modes. This allows for provisioning volumes, which can be read and written from multiple pods simultaneously. To support this, you must enable vSAN File Service.

> **Note**: vSAN File Service is available only in vSAN Enterprise and Enterprise Plus editions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** vSAN File Service is available only in the vSAN Enterprise and Enterprise Plus editions.
```

Contour is an open-source controller for Kubernetes Ingress routing. Contour can be installed in the Shared Services cluster on any Tanzu Kubernetes Cluster. Deploying Contour is a prerequisite if you want to deploy the Prometheus, Grafana, and Harbor Packages on a workload cluster. 

For more information about Contour, see [Contour](https://projectcontour.io/) site and [Implementing Ingress Control with Contour](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Kubernetes-Grid/1.4/vmware-tanzu-kubernetes-grid-14/GUID-packages-ingress-contour.html).

Another option is to use the NSX Advanced Load Balancer Kubernetes ingress controller which offers an advanced L7 ingress for containerized applications that are deployed in the Tanzu Kubernetes workload cluster. 

![NSX Advanced Load Balancing capabilities for VMware Tanzu](img/tko-on-vmc-aws/tko-vmc-aws05.png)

For more information about the NSX ALB ingress controller, please see the [official documentation](https://avinetworks.com/docs/ako/1.5/avi-kubernetes-operator/).

> [Tanzu Service Mesh](https://tanzu.vmware.com/service-mesh), which is a SaaS offering for modern applications running across multi-cluster, multi-clouds, also offers an Ingress controller based on [Istio](https://istio.io/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Tanzu Service Mesh](https://tanzu.vmware.com/service-mesh), an SaaS offering for modern applications running across multi-cluster, multi-clouds, also offers an ingress controller based on [Istio](https://istio.io/). 
```

> Each ingress controller has pros and cons of its own. The below table provides general recommendations on when you should use a specific ingress controller for your Kubernetes environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each ingress controller has its own pros and cons. The following table provides general recommendations for choosing an ingress controller for your Kubernetes environment.
```

|**Ingress Controller**|**Use Cases**|
| :- | :-: |
|Contour|<p>Use contour when only north-south traffic is needed in a Kubernetes cluster. You can apply security policies for north-south traffic by defining the policies in the applications manifest file.</p><p></p><p>It's a reliable solution for simple Kubernetes workloads. </p>|

> |Istio|use Istio ingress controller when you intended to provide security, traffic direction, and insight within the cluster (east-west traffic) and between the cluster and the outside world (north-south traffic)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Istio|Use Istio ingress controller when you intend to provide security, traffic direction, and insight within the cluster (east-west traffic) and between the cluster and the outside world (north-south traffic)|
```

|NSX ALB Ingress controller|<p>Use NSX ALB ingress controller when a containerized application requires features like local and global server load balancing (GSLB), web application firewall (WAF), performance monitoring, etc. </p><p></p>|

# **NSX ALB Sizing Guidelines**

## Controller Sizing Guidelines

> The Controllers are classified into the following categories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Controllers are classified into the following categories:
```

|**Classification**|**vCPUs**|**Memory (GB)**
| :- | :- | :- |
|Small|8-15|24-32|
|Medium|16-23|32-48
|Large|>24|>48|

> The number of virtual services that can be deployed per controller cluster is directly proportional to the controller cluster size. Please refer to the NSX ALB [Configuration Maximum guide](https://configmax.esp.vmware.com/guest?vmwareproduct=NSX%20Advanced%20Load%20Balancer&release=21.1.3&categories=119-0c) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of virtual services that can be deployed per controller cluster is directly proportional to the controller cluster size. See the NSX ALB [Configuration Maximum guide](https://configmax.esp.vmware.com/guest?vmwareproduct=NSX%20Advanced%20Load%20Balancer&release=21.1.3&categories=119-0c) for more information.
```

## Service Engine Sizing Guidelines

> The Service Engines can be configured with a minimum of 1 vCPU core and 1 GB RAM up to a maximum of 64 vCPU cores and 256 GB RAM The following table provides guidance to size a Service Engine VM with regards to performance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Service Engines can be configured with a minimum of 1 vCPU core and 1 GB RAM up to a maximum of 64 vCPU cores and 256 GB RAM. The following table provides guidance for sizing a Service Engine VM with regards to performance:
```

|**Performance metric**|**Per core performance**|**Maximum performance on a single Service Engine VM**|
| :- | :- |:-|
|HTTP Throughput|5 Gbps|7 Gbps|
|HTTP requests per second|50k|175k|
|SSL Throughput|1 Gbps|7 Gbps|
|SSL TPS (RSA2K)|750|40K|
|SSL TPS (ECC)|2000|40K|

Multiple performance vectors or features may have an impact on performance. For instance, to achieve 1 Gb/s of SSL throughput and 2000 TPS of SSL with EC certificates, NSX ALB recommends two cores.

> Service Engines can be deployed in Active/Active or Active/Standby mode depending on the license tier used. NSX ALB Essentials license doesn’t support Active/Active HA mode for Service Engines. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service Engines can be deployed in Active/Active or Active/Standby mode depending on the license tier used. The NSX ALB Essentials license does not support Active/Active HA mode for Service Engines. 
```

VMware Tanzu for Kubernetes Operations using Tanzu Kubernetes Grid include Harbor as a container registry. Harbor provides a location for pushing, pulling, storing, and scanning container images used in your Kubernetes clusters. 

Harbor registry is used for day2 operations of the Tanzu Kubernetes workload clusters. Typical day-2 operations include tasks such as pulling images from the harbor for application deployment, pushing custom images to Harbor, etc. 

There are three main supported installation methods for Harbor:

- [**TKG Package deployment**](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Kubernetes-Grid/1.5/vmware-tanzu-kubernetes-grid-15/GUID-packages-harbor-registry.html) on a TKG Shared service cluster. Tanzu Kubernetes Grid includes signed binaries for Harbor, which you can deploy into a shared services cluster to provide container registry services for other Tanzu Kubernetes (workload) clusters. This installation method is recommended for general use cases.

- [**Helm-based deployment**](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.4.0/install-config/harbor-ha-helm/) to a Kubernetes cluster - this installation method may be preferred for customers already invested in Helm.

> - [**VM-based deployment**](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.1.0/install-config/installation-prereqs/) - using docker-compose - this installation method is recommended in cases where Tanzu Kubernetes Grid is installed in an air-gapped environment and no pre-existing Kubernetes clusters exist on which to install Harbor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**VM-based deployment**](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.1.0/install-config/installation-prereqs/) using Docker Compose. VMware recommends this installation method when Tanzu Kubernetes Grid is installed in an airgapped environment and there are no pre-existing Kubernetes clusters on which to install Harbor.
```

![Harbor Container Registry](img/tko-on-vmc-aws/tko-vmc-aws06.png)

#
# vSphere with Tanzu SaaS Integration

> The SaaS products in the VMware Tanzu portfolio are in the critical path for securing systems at the heart of your IT infrastructure. VMware Tanzu Mission Control provides a centralized control plane for Kubernetes, and Tanzu Service Mesh provides a global control plane for service mesh networks. Tanzu Observability provides features like Kubernetes monitoring, Application observability and Service insights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SaaS products in the VMware Tanzu portfolio are in the critical path for securing systems at the heart of your IT infrastructure. VMware Tanzu Mission Control provides a centralized control plane for Kubernetes, and Tanzu Service Mesh provides a global control plane for service mesh networks. Tanzu Observability provides Kubernetes monitoring, Application observability and Service insights.
```

> To learn more about TKG integration with Tanzu SaaS, please see [Tanzu SaaS Services](tko-saas.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about TKG integration with Tanzu SaaS, see [Tanzu SaaS Services](tko-saas.md)
```

# Summary

Tanzu on VMware Cloud on AWS offers high-performance potential, convenience, and addresses the challenges of creating, testing, and updating Kubernetes platforms in a consolidated production environment. This validated approach will result in a production quality installation with all the application services needed to serve combined or uniquely separated workload types via a combined infrastructure solution.

This plan meets many Day 0 needs for aligning product capabilities, such as configuring firewall rules, networking, load balancing, and workload compute, to the full stack infrastructure.

> <!-- Deployment Instructions -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Removed unnecessary HTML comment. Everything after this point should be removed from this document.

> <!-- For information on how to deploy this reference design, see . -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Removed unnecessary HTML comment.

> ## <a id=appendix-a></a> Appendix A

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Removed this heading and link target because all the link references above were removed.  The remainder of this document should be deleted, but I can't do it here because GitHub won't allow it.

VSPHERE_WORKER_DISK_GIB: 40
VSPHERE_WORKER_MEM_MIB: 4096
```

> <!-- /* cSpell:enable */ -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
